docs/public/docs/eap-docs.md, before:

---
description: What is Quesma?
---
# What is Quesma?

Quesma is an actively developed database gateway. Route your queries through a translation layer that seamlessly connects your apps with the modern database platforms of your choice. No more query refactoring during migrations.

In its current form, Quesma is a lightweight database proxy that enables database interoperability between Elasticsearch/OpenSearch and ClickHouse/Hydrolix.


The high-level architecture is as follows:
```mermaid
graph LR
    In[Incoming traffic, e.g. Kibana] --> |HTTP requests| Q[Quesma]
    Q[Quesma] --> |HTTP response| In 
    Q --> Ch[ClickHouse/Hydrolix]
    Q --> ES[Elasticsearch/OpenSearch]
```

Essentially, Quesma speaks Elasticsearch API and can source data from both Elasticsearch indices and [ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com) or [Hydrolix](https://hydrolix.io) tables.

## Quick start demo

The easiest way to get try out Quesma is to run the example `docker-compose` setup, which includes sample data and is pre-configured with example datasets. 
\
See the [Quick start demo](./quick-start.md) for more details.

## Installation guide

For those interested in deploying Quesma in their existing environments, follow along to **Installation guide** section, which  provides a detailed instructions on how to set up Quesma in various deployment scenarios.
\
See the [Installation guide](./installation.md) for more details.

Commit message:

Add Hydrolix IP acquisition announcement
Changes:
- banner to README.md
- documentation landing page (index.md)
- main documentation page (eap-docs.md)

docs/public/docs/eap-docs.md, after:

---
description: What is Quesma?
---
# What is Quesma?

::: warning IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
The Quesma database gateway IP has been acquired by [Hydrolix](https://hydrolix.io/) to ensure continued support. [Read the announcement.](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hydrolix-adds-quesma-gateway-proxy-ip-to-its-portfolio-assuring-continued-kibana-support-302559127.html)

This repository is no longer actively supported by the original Quesma team. For questions or support, please [contact Hydrolix](https://hydrolix.io/contact/).
:::

Quesma is a database gateway. Route your queries through a translation layer that seamlessly connects your apps with the modern database platforms of your choice. No more query refactoring during migrations.

In its current form, Quesma is a lightweight database proxy that enables database interoperability between Elasticsearch/OpenSearch and ClickHouse/Hydrolix.


The high-level architecture is as follows:
```mermaid
graph LR
    In[Incoming traffic, e.g. Kibana] --> |HTTP requests| Q[Quesma]
    Q[Quesma] --> |HTTP response| In 
    Q --> Ch[ClickHouse/Hydrolix]
    Q --> ES[Elasticsearch/OpenSearch]
```

Essentially, Quesma speaks Elasticsearch API and can source data from both Elasticsearch indices and [ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com) or [Hydrolix](https://hydrolix.io) tables.

## Quick start demo

The easiest way to get try out Quesma is to run the example `docker-compose` setup, which includes sample data and is pre-configured with example datasets. 
\
See the [Quick start demo](./quick-start.md) for more details.

## Installation guide

For those interested in deploying Quesma in their existing environments, follow along to **Installation guide** section, which  provides a detailed instructions on how to set up Quesma in various deployment scenarios.
\
See the [Installation guide](./installation.md) for more details.
